comitup(8) -- Manage wifi connections on headless, unconnected systems
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`comitup`

## DESCRIPTION

The **comitup** service provides a means to establish a connection between a
computer and a wifi access point, in the case where wifi is the only means
available to access the computer.

On startup, the service will attempt to connect to wifi using established
networkmanager(8) connections. If this is not successful, **comitup** will
establish a wifi hotspot with the name _comitup-&lt;nnnn&gt;_, where &lt;nnnn&gt; is
a persistent 4-digit number.

While the hotspot is active, a comitup-web(8) service is available to manage
connecting to an access point.

In all states, avahi-daemon(8) is used to publish the mdns host names
_comitup.local_ and _comitup-&lt;nnnn&gt;.local_, making the web service accessible
as e.g. _http://comitup.local_, for systems supporting Zeroconf. For other
systems, a _comitup_ Web Service is published which is visible to Zeroconf
browsing applications, allowing the IP address to be manually determined.

**comitup** logs to _/var/log/comitup.log_.

### D-BUS Interface

**Comitup** provides a D-BUS object which claims the name
_com.github.davesteele.comitup_ on the path
_/com/github/davesteele/comitup_, supporting the
interface _com.github.davesteele.comitup_. The interface includes the
following methods.

  * _activity()_

    Input: None

    Output: None

    Calling this method will disable **comitup** timeout processing for the
    current period. In the **HOTSPOT** mode, this defers the periodic access
    point connection attempt until the next timeout period (nominally 1
    minute). **HOTSPOT** timeout processing is also disabled if any other
    device is connected to the hotspot.

  * _access_points()_

    Input: None

    Output: Array of _DICT_ENTRY_

    Return a list of visible access points. This is represented as an array
    of D-BUS _DICT_ENTRY_. Each _DICT_ENTRY_ contains strings associated with
    the following keys, _ssid_, _strength_ (0 to 100) and _security_
    (_encrypted_ or _unencrypted_).

  * _state()_

    Input: None

    Ouput: _state_, _connection_

    This returns strings for the current **comitup** state (either
    **HOTSPOT**, **CONNECTING**, or **CONNECTED**) and the _ssid_ name for
    the current connection on the wifi device.

  * _connect()_

    Input: _ssid_, _password_

    Output: None

    Delete any existing connection for _ssid_, create a new connection, and
    attempt to connect to it. The password may be a zero length string if
    not needed.

  * _delete_connection()_

    Input: _ssid_

    Output: None

    Delete the connection for _ssid_. The system will not be able to reconnect
    using this connection.

## COPYRIGHT

Comitup is Copyright (C) 2016 David Steele &lt;https://davesteele.github.io/&gt;.

## SEE ALSO

comitup-conf(5), comitup-cli(1), comitup-web(8)
